# Electric Vehicle Presence Discovery


The purpose of this project is to identify if a household has an electric vehicle or not. This information will help energy companies identify the needs of the consumers.  
 
The objective of this study would be to recognize which residential homes own electric vehicles. This information would provide more insights into the needs of energy in homes. electric Vehicles require much energy to charge. Being able to predict where electric vehicles are can lead to energy companies have a better estimate of how much energy certain homes need. This can also lead to energy companies being able to provide better energy saving/money saving tips for their consumers.

The main research question that this project will work to answer is Which residential homes have Electric Vehicles and how many do they own? This project will also identify how much energy it takes to charge these vehicles and what time of they day will users charge their vehicles. Another question is how does weather patterns affect the model and how does historical data compare with present data?
 
There are two main data sources Data port’s Pecan street and NOAA. Dataport’s Pecan street  database has many features of use for this objective. It can provide information on houses that have Electric vehicles, how much energy they use when they use energy and many other essential pieces of information. Dataport has a table called electric_vehicles which provides the unique ID for houses with EV as well as the number of EV they own. Dataport has another table called electricity_egauage_hours this will provide us with the hourly electricity consumption of the residential households. We will make sure to pull houses from the EV table as well as ones that do not have EV.  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration contain weather data. This includes data on the amount of sun, precipitation, air pressure and other important weather/climate scenarios for timelines as granular as hourly. 
 
This is a classification problem, and also a time series analysis. To start with the data would be collected, cleaned and put together. The next step is the Exploratory Data Analysis. This is used to ensure that the right data is included and to test the data for confounding variables, distributions, correlations, and feature importance. The final step is modeling.  Time series analysis will be useful when looking at the hourly electric consumption by household. Models that are useful in classification problems include logistic regression, random forest, decision trees, K-nearest neighbor, support vector machine, and neural networks. All these models can be tested and hyperparameter tuning will be an essential step in model adjustment. The models can be ranked based on accuracy to identify the best model. 

